hey this is presh tall walker this
problem involves 100 red balls 100 blue
balls and two urns you distribute all of
the balls between the two urns placing
at least one ball in each urn you then
select an urn at random and you select a
random ball from that urn you win $100
if you select a red ball what is your
best strategy for distributing the balls
and what is your best winning percentage
give this problem a try and when you're
ready keep watching the video for the
solution so here's the optimal strategy
in one of the urns you place one red
ball and none of the blue balls in the
other urn you place all of the remaining
balls 99 red balls and 100 blue balls
let's calculate the probability of
selecting a red ball from each urn from
the first urn there's only one red ball
so there's a hundred percent chance that
you will select a red ball in the other
urn there are 99 red balls divided by a
hundred and 99 balls in total so there's
a 99 divided by a hundred and 99 chance
of selecting a red ball from that urn
since you select an urn at random each
case is equally likely which means your
overall winning percentage is the
average of these two cases this results
in a winning percentage that's nearly
75% it's approximately seventy four
point eight seven percent and this is
quite surprising you have a nearly three
in four chance of selecting a red ball
this intuitively seems like the best
answer but how do we know that let's
prove the optimality of the strategy
there are two cases to consider first
imagine a distribution of balls which
places an equal number of
red and blue balls in each urn there is
a 50% chance of selecting a red ball
from each urn which means there's an
overall 50% chance of selecting a red
ball the success rate in the strategy is
worse than the strategy we just
described so any distribution of this
kind is not optimal so let's consider
the other case we'll imagine that we
have to place more red balls and blue
balls in one of the urns call that urn a
that means the other earn earn B must
have more blue balls than red balls B is
greater than or equal to R plus 1 where
B is the number of blue balls in urn B
and R is a number of red balls and earn
B what's the probability of selecting a
red ball from earn B this is the number
of red balls divided by the total number
of balls in iron B because we have a
lower bound on B this places an upper
bound on the fraction we substitute R +
1 as the lower bound on B we can
simplify this to be the fraction R
divided by 2r plus 1 if we take the
derivative of this function it is always
going to be positive in its domain this
means R divided by 2r plus 1 is
increasing in the variable R in other
words the more red balls we place in
earn B the higher the chances that we'll
select a red ball at most earn B has 99
red balls this is because we need to
save one red ball to place an RNA which
has more red balls than blue balls so at
most this fraction R divided by 2r plus
1 can have a value of 99 divided by 199
this is the value if we substitute R
equals 99 so we know the probability
selecting a red ball from earned B is
that most 99/199 and naturally the
probability of selecting a red ball from
earn a has to be limited by a hundred
percent because our probability cannot
be higher than a hundred percent we
exactly achieve these upper bounds in
the strategy we exactly get the highest
probability of selecting a red ball from
each earn and therefore the strategy we
describe is optimal did you figure it
out thanks for watching this video
please subscribe to my channel I make
videos on math and game theory you can
catch me on my blog mind your decisions
which you can follow on Facebook Google+
and patreon you can catch me on social
media at pressure Locker and if you like
this video please check out my books
there links in the video description